Recording, so actually we are going to record each lecture, so
after one or two hours up until
the end of today, I mean.
The end of each lectures day
we release the slides and the
URL to the video recording.
So you have to wait up until
the end of the day of the
lecture to see the.
The slides and their recordings.
But that's why I mean the meet and greet link doesn't work
right now. Actually, I put a
kind of fake URL. I mean to be
released soon in order to just
post the link in the
blackboard and then later will
put the correct link.
So I believe everybody can see
my screen right now.
Just to make sure that
everybody has a focus and
attention to the lecture,
please send me feedbacks on
the chat box. So basically
you can click on your icon
in the blackboard and then
send some feedback such as
Happy, Surprise, sad
confusion etc. So here is a
sample from my side.
So. Thank you Zachary
So I'm waiting for others.
Thank you, Justin Smith.
Awesome.
Why crying Ferris?
Awesome.
I saw it. Thank you.
OK, so it seems everybody has
the focus, so let's start off,
so I already.
Start the recording, uh, I mean
from the next lectures if I
forget to start the recording,
please remind me, because for
all those students that cannot
attend this section because of
the time zone differences and
something whatever. Actually we
provide the link to the
recordings, so sometimes I
forget just to click that
button. So please remind me in.
If I forget that so.
Um, anybody of you can.
Tell me that what
is this picture?
You can put your. I mean you're
thinking of this picture in the
slide Galaxy. Correct, yes,
basically this is the very
small portion of the universe,
very small portion and.
You'll see why I put this
slide for discourse, the
opening slide of the lecture
today, so let's see this.
Size of this portion in
the universe.
So. If you go to this
link and then click the video.
It shows how where this portion
of the universe actually exists.
Let me play the video now, so
this is the view from the Earth.
And, uh.
This is the, uh, that image
actually. So if you see here.
We are zooming into the
universe.
And as you can see here.
This is the brilliant I mean
image took by the Hubble Space
Telescope. And you'll see
that I mean these huge amount
of stars are just very small
portion of the Galaxy.
So.
I put this here because I wanted
to show you that.
Why? What's the reason behind
this course? Basically, a
astronomers the science of
astronomy is not about, I mean
building telescopes, but as you
can see in this clip, building
high tech telescopes helps the
astronomers to study the
universe much more better. They
can prove or disprove their
theories about the Galaxy and
about the Wolves. So again,
although the astronomy is not
the science of Million
Telescope, but. Building a high
tech telescopes is a huge help.
The same actually happens with
the computer systems. Their
whole science of computer
science is not about building
computer systems, but having or
knowing how to build the high
tech computer systems is a huge
benefit for us as a computer
scientist. To solve our
problems. So this is a famous
code by Edgar Dijkstra that says
that the computer science is not
more than computers.
And astronomy about telescopes.
So you might ask that we can go
to the market and buy high tech
computer Android, write our
program to solve the problem.
But the reason?
For you to take this course an
understanding materials about
building computer system is that
if you know how the computer
system is built and how they are
working, it it's a huge help for
you to write your program. So
today I'm going to show you a
little bit of the that just to
motivate you why this course is
one of the important cores in
the computer science discipline.
So.
This story starts from
I mean very ancient.
Years, I mean, since the human
being we're able to see the
stars. So then they start to
propose some problems. The most
immediate problems is that is it
possible for us to travel these
huge distances and land those on
those stars. So the immediate
problem is that is it possible
to measure the distance, the
height, or the length of the
diameter for the stars and
compare them with the diameter
of the earth and etc.
So all these immediate
problems are, I mean among
the first problems happen in
the minds of human beings and
they try to solve them.
In fact, uh.
When they try to solve the
problem, they say that either we
can do the solve the problem
manually by some doing some
taking some steps, or we can
build some machines to do those
steps for us.
So if you heard of these, I
mean, uh, theories. These are
the name of some courses in
computer science theory of
atomic theory of computation on
theory of computer science,
which basically the whole
science is about weather.
A given problem can be solved by
machines or no by taking finish
steps of actions. So in another
world, given a problem, we want
to prove that the problem is
computable or not because there
are lots of problems that
actually they are not computable
but computable. We mean that is
it possible to solve the problem
by taking finished number of
steps to solve the problem,
whether the machine takes those
steps or the human individual
take those steps.
This the only thing matters is
the number of steps that should
be finished. I mean in the
limited time we have to come up
with the answer to the problem.
So as you can see here, let me
always this like I just like my.
Yeah.
So as you can see in this huge
circle. There are.
I mean, in mathematical
formulation, infinitely
infinite, innumerable problems
that are not computable, meaning
that we don't have any solution
for them or the solution for
them takes infinite number of
time or steps to solve the
problem. Very small portion of
problems is proved to be
computable, meaning that we can
take is infinite number of steps
to solve the problem.
And for those problems that
we prove that there is a
computable solution to that,
we write the programs.
These programs, as I said, I can
be run by machines or by human
individuals. So you know that
when we write a program, any
program has two dimension
algorithm and data. The data
part is about how to model
the information from the
world into the.
Program, for instance, if you
wanted to measure the distance
of stars in this image, you have
to input the image to your
program. So you have to figure
out how you represent an image
too. The your program as a data
input data and then you take
some algorithm or some
mathematical step or
mathematical actions on top of
these image or this data input
data and then finally you add
put some numbers as the distance
of this I mean between these
stars in this image. So at the
end of the program you output
the result as a new data or
output data so the whole data is
about representing the input.
Information and.
Output in the new data.
The algorithm or those steps
that you apply on the data to
process the data.
So in computer science, if you
want to solve the problem by
computers, are there are some
courses that deal with the data
port and with the algorithm
part? So you probably took one
or two of them, or I mean you
will take them in the future
years of your study in the
undergrad studies regarding the
data, there's a course called
data structure which is about
representing data in memory.
So you don't know what is
memory, but in this course we
want to explain how we can build
the memory on how we represent
the data in the memory. But in
this quote this just say that if
you lose the power you lose the
information in the memory.
But in this course you see why.
Then a file structure which is
about representing their data in
files. For instance, this image
is a file, so if we lose the
power is still, the data is
represented in the file. It is a
persistent data. So in final
structure we know how to
represent the other in a
persistent way. And then
database management systems,
data warehouse, big data and
cloud. And you probably hear
these names. I mean in the O
these are very hot topics, huge
amount how to represent huge
amounts of data.
In another perspective, the
algorithms are some courses
which is about providing
solution to the problem. So
for instance, algorithm
design, algorithm analysis,
how to provide the solution
to a given problem.
Ha analysis is about, uh,
checking the running time or the
space needed for the algorithm
to be applied on the problem. So
there is a course. I mean
usually in the undergraduate
studies they merge these two
functions, data structure and
algorithm design. This was just
one course, but in some school
day separate these two.
And then AI machine learning and
data money. These are the
greatest courses. So if you are
interested you can follow in the
graduate studies to know how to
come up with solution that uses
the human individual
intelligence. Or other form of
intelligence. For instance, some
animals has some form of
intelligence that the human
beings are not able to acquire
those intelligence. So any type
of intelligence can be
incorporated to solve our
problem. And these courses
actually are about those.
But as you can see here, there
is no topic or there is no
discussion about. Where these
data and algorithm is actually
running or represented ways the
machine in these courses they
talk about problems and
solutions and the data in an
abstract view. They assume that
you go to the market and buy a
computer system to do all these
things for you, so you don't
need to be aware of the running
platform. But in this course
and the next, I mean a
course which is the
architecture two will say
that it is important for you
as a computer scientist to
know about the running
platform, the machines that
are that are responsible to
run your algorithm or
represent your data.
OK.
So just to motivate you that you
have to know about the computer
systems and how they they are
built and how they run your
program and data. I just wanted
to give you a very small I mean
example but before that if you
have any question, I'm ready to
take your questions so far.
There's no questions.
Guys it's not good to not have
any question so I really enjoy
having a lot of questions in my
courses so please put your
question in the chat box and it
cetera. Thank you Sean. So I
continue and again if you have
any questions just put into the
chat box and yeah so.
As I said, I'm now I'm going
to write a very simple program,
just without knowing any
knowledge about the my machine,
my computer system. So basically
I can create a new program, let
me just. Create a project. This
is the eclipse environments.
I'll explain that you are going
to have some lab assignments
that you have to do in the C
language. Our default is the
eclipse environment, but you can
use any programming environment
to write your code in C.
And I just wanted to show you a
very I mean quick sample. So
just say hello word by using the
C compiler in the eclipse
environment and then I create a
project called comp.
today lecture on my United mean.
And, uh, that's it pretty much
it. So this is the most simplest
program in C language. So let me
just zoom in.
Oh sorry, how can
I zoom in Eclipse?
So I believe you can see
my code now.
So I'm going to just write the
most simplest program to add 2
integers. So I write
a function called at.
Which accept two integers A&B.
And basically it returns a class
key. Very simple program.
In C language.
And then I'm going to just.
Ask the user.
About importing two integer
number, enter as you as you see,
this is one of the most simplest
problem, But this problem, I
mean, was among the first main
problem in human history. How to
add 2 numbers?
Now why we need numbers and why
we need to add numbers etc. So
enter an integer number.
And then I just scan if ask the
user to put any decimal number.
So we need a variable here. So I
define a variable in one, also
another number and two. I just
wanted to store the results of
the addition in some. So here I
ask mean number and then I store
it in and one.
So so far you need. You see that
there is no need to know where
these variables are stored in
the computer machine.
So and then I.
Ask the user for another input.
And then it's ready and two, and
then I called the function at.
And one and two.
And then store it in the sun.
And then later I just wanted
to print your result in the
Apply printf
To be a sum of a
First number and the second
number is the third number.
I want.
Chill answer.
Yes, Sir, actually did you
are going to. We are going
to have some weekly labs.
The labs are the
programming assignments so
you have to write code in C
language. Basically a
prerequisite course for
this course is the
programming I guess.
COMP 1400
Yes, come 1400 is the required course for this course
in the comp. 1400 you learn how
to write a code in C.
Although you can write in C++ or
other languages, but because
just to be consistent with all
other students who took those
that course. The record language
is C or C++.
So one thing is that let's save
it. And then build the program.
So in the here you in the bottom
of the page you can see that
it's built successfully and then
we can run the program.
OK, now will you sad.
I'm here. So in eclipse you have
to say that this is a local
application and then run it. So
here's the output. As you can
see here, there's a bug in
Eclipse. It doesn't print out
the input because it caches or a
buffers the output. So just to
solve this problem, I just end
the program. There is a command
in C language.
Set buffering actually it shot
off the buffering in the
program. So basically I said
that the standard output the
buffering must be null and I got
to not buffer the output. So
this is because of the Eclipse
park, so you might not need this
for other environments. One
thing is that in eclipse you
have to 1st save it and build
it, but in some other
environments it is automatically
saved. So this is another bug
for the eclipse.
It's not a bug, but
it's kind of, I mean.
Inconvenience, so let's build it
again. And then run it again.
So I put a number for instance 10. The second number is 20 and then you
see that the sum is 30.
Yes, Connor. I actually kinda
says that there's another.
Function called fflush, meaning that it flushes the
buffer to the output. This is
another way. Yes, true we can
use this tool, yes?
Make it comments another option.
Correct market yes I after each
you have to put this after each
printf to flush the buffer.
So, but this is just one single
command that it's instructive
program to do not offer the
output anymore, but with this
command you have to do this
after each Princess.
To just flash that so this is
not important, But yeah, that
this is a bug. I mean, usually
not a boy. I mean buffering the
output is a good thing, but it
is inconvenient when you are
debugging your program.
But the main idea of my
programming here is that let's
run the program and see where it
is. Just stop the program and
then let's see.
This program is able, uh,
whether I mean it is able
to. I mean, some two huge
numbers or not, this
number, plus this number.
Oh, you see that, uh?
The first number.
I've input the first
number as. I mean this
number. All the digits are
too, but you see that in
the output the program
actually assumes that the
number. Is this an it
incorrectly add this
number with this number
and come up with this.
So you see that there is no
compile error here. This is
a logic error, and so what's
the problem?
Um? Yes, Nick an Ahmed
yes and also rohai yes, as you
said, as you probably guessed,
start some overflow happening
here. But remember this
knowledge of overflow or the way
we represent the data is not
about programming, it is the
knowledge of the computer
system. So we why an overflow.
What is overflow and why you
think that an overflow happens
because. You already knew how
the computer system stores the
information, so as I said, if
you don't know that so you
cannot understand what's the
problem here. Even if you
debug your program, you see
that. I mean there is no
problem with the program just
adding two numbers etc. But
there is a logical error here.
In order to understand this
error, you have to obtain some
knowledge about the machine
that runs this edition. So
let's do another run.
So I just put another huge
number here and then number one.
And suddenly you come up with
these two numbers. So you see
that this huge number, now an
overflow happens, but it
becomes another number minus
one. This is a positive number
becomes a negative number.
And you see that I mean,
the final result is 0.
This type of of errors or
logical errors. In order to
solve these errors, you have
to know the underlying
running platform in order to
solve the problem.
So as you said, as you correctly
set up the, an overflow happens.
So in the C language, in order
to see what is the maximum
number integer number in order
for the program to store it
correctly and then come up with
the correct result, there is a
library called limits Edge.
In this library you can simply
tell the user that what is the.
Range of maximum and minimum
integer numbers. The Min and
Max numbers should be quick,
sorry the.
Enter the numbers.
Between mean and Max.
And we need is a case number.
And Max is this number and
there's two constant in C and
men aanenson Max. These two
constants are found the limits
library. An IT outputs what is
the maximum or minimum number
for the integer in the C
language. So let's save it.
And then build it.
And then run it again.
So one thing is that I didn't
put the new line here, so let's
stop this here and then.
Continue line here.
So save it and then build it.
And then run it again.
So the program says that you
have to put in numbers within
these within this range from the
minimum number. This enter the
maximum number of discs, so
let's. Try this and put the
maximum number.
At the first number and
then added with one.
So if you add this number with
one. It's sick, let's back to
the minimum negative number.
So. It is showing some logic
behind the processing of the
addition in the computer system,
but it still we don't know why
this happens. I mean why the
maximum integer number +1?
Is love an overflow
exception or an error?
Something like that it
becomes a negative minimum
number.
So.
As I said by these simple
example, I just wanted to show
you that it is necessary for you
as a programmer, as a computer
scientist to know how the data
is actually presented in a
system and how the addition or
any other operation is actually
applied on these numbers or any
type of data in order to come up
with a debugger program or
sometimes a faster program.
So.
Let's see, is there
any questions of?
Geo yes we are recording
the lectures, yes.
And we ask. So when overflow
from the top, it goes to the
lowest available number. So and
we, you could say that, correct?
So you could say that yes, the
logic is in the computer in this
computer system, for systems
from my I mean in my.
The computer system that I'm
using, yes, this is the logic.
But sometimes if you run this
program in another machine, it
may come up with another logic.
So again, it depends on the
computer system that you run the
same program, but because they
come the system might do another
way to represent the data. It
may come up with another Apple.
So that's why we have to know
how the computer system is built
or how they are working.
So. This is not about all, I
mean, this knowledge is not only
helping us about debugging our
program. Also it helps us with
writing faster programs.
If you compare yourself, who
took this course with another
student that who doesn't take
this course is that.
At the end of the day, if you
both write a program because
you have the knowledge of the
computer system, you can write
your program that runs much
more faster so.
This is the. This is the
idea that why you have to
take this course.
So let's back this slides.
How many?
So these are the slides that I
just explained to you how to
create a new C++ or C language
and how to create a new simplest
form of program, the advision,
etc. Whatever I explained it. I
mean in my sample. So these are
the outputs that I showed you
that what happens in the
underlying platform that come up
with the incorrect outputs.
And how to output the minimum,
maximum integers etc is obvious
like that I just explained.
There is a program that,
without the knowledge of
the computer system,
actually implements the
addition algorithm, so I
borrowed this algorithm
from this website.
What they did is just implement
the addition algorithm, which we
learn from high school. How to
add 2 integer numbers? I mean
each digit by each each other.
So in order to solve that
problem, they implemented the
actual addition algorithm.
They store the information
instead of integer numbers. They
store it as a string of digits
and they and then they add each
digit in a loop. So this is the
program I will upload this
program in the blackboard so you
can have a look at that. So if
you run this program it can add
very large numbers because it
doesn't store the numbers as
integers in the memory it stores
the. Numbers as a
strings so. Even if
you use this program that stores
the digits, for instance, here
is a 50,000. It's a number with
15,000 digits, and if you add
these two 50 digits using this
program, it gives you the
correct answer and the time is
very fast 0.
But, uh.
I'm saying that. Even if
still, if you use this program
to some two huge numbers, and
as you can see here, very
fast, just zero time interval.
If you run this program for
multiple times, which happens in
matrix formation or matrix and
multiplication, this program
actually takes a lot of time,
and this is the diagram that I
created. I upload the program
that you can run it yourself,
even if you.
Add two huge numbers with that
program, but with a huge amount
of iteration process which
happens in the matrix summation.
You see that there is a linear
correlation between the number
of addition number of times that
you add to huge numbers and the
running time. So the more
addition you do, the more time
you have to wait.
So this is another
example of that.
If you know the.
Running platform for the
addition, you can make this
linear, I mean increasing of
time and a little bit. You can
lower the slope and then you can
run it. We can write a program
that runs faster even for huge
amount of additions.
All.
So these are the samples that I
just wanted to show you that it
is necessary to know that your
data and algorithm runs on
another aspect of computer
science, which is machines.
So there's a third dimension.
The first I mentioned the data
structure. How to represent the
data. The second dimension is
the how to.
How to solve the problem? How to
apply actions on the data in
order to come up with the
correct answer for your problem
and the third dimension? Is that
choosing correct machine or know
how the machine is build built
for running your programs in
this time? Isn't there are three
main courses in undergrad
studies? Computer art
architecture one or usually in
the schools it is called digital
design. And then the next
course gonna be computer
architecture in the Universal
Windsor in the school
computer, access to two
microprocessing program. But
in summer school this
separate these two and these
are the main courses which
deal with the machines.
Um again, these are necessary
for you in order to have a
knowledge of the computer
system to help you with
writing a better programs.
So this is a course about
digital design and will start
with. Numbering systems.
Actually we ask this question
why we need numbers and if we
need numbers, how can we
represent numbers? So we say
that oh, dark different basis
functions decimal, binary,
hexadecimal, different numbering
systems. And then when we come
up with a.
Efficient way to represent
numbers. Uh, we build smallest
unit to process those
informations and this is
smallest units are called gates
or logic gates.
Which is actually pretty can
I can process binary numbers,
for instance zero and one an.
Here you see that why we
build complex system based on
binary numbers and where this
binary numbers actually come
up in the computer science.
We could build a system that
works with decimal system.
Why we didn't do that? And you
you'll see in this chapter.
And then by aggregating this
smallest units, we build a
larger units to do a multi
mean. Some sophisticated
algorithm. For instance
multiplication division but
using by using machines I
mean the computer systems.
And then, uh, we say that.
So so far.
We can represent the information
and numbers we can process the
numbers, but we cannot restore
the numbers as long as we
provide the input. After some
time we process the information
and we output the result.
But another thing is that is
it possible. Another question
is that is it possible for us
to restore the information?
The storing information is not
that is not only about, I mean
keeping in some places that
whenever we need the information
we just look it up. The
information. It is also helpful
for doing some sophisticated
algorithms because some
algorithm if you store
intermediate result, you can
come up with better solutions.
That's why we need to inform a
storage to store the information
and the smallest unit of storage
is called. Flip flops as any can
see here. This is the unit that
is able to store one binary
numbers, either zero or one.
And the whole memory units in
the old computer systems are
building on top of this. As you
can see here.
Later, you'll see that, uh?
How did technology actually
progress in order to make this
unit? I mean, to build this unit
very efficiently such that, for
instance, right now we can have.
Two terabyte solid state drive
an. All these solid state drives
are built by sand. This simplest
unit, which is able to suggest
the wrong ones.
And then we put all this
together to build a
computer systems.
So this is the path that we are
going to take in this course and
it doesn't end here in the next
course, which is the computer
architecture. Two, you are going
to continue this path.
So that's why I called this a
digital Odyssey, so this is the
starting point of this course.
He
winter 2021 at Digital Odyssey.
Any questions so far?
So anybody have you
know this picture?
I just wanted to know that are
you a movie fan or no?
Yes, look yes. This is from
the one of the most great
greatest movie of all time by
Stanley Kubrick. It's called
20,001 Space Odyssey.
So I borrowed this concept from
here, how many?
You seen this movie?
You can put it back in the chat
box. I just wanted to you have
67 student in the class so I
just want to know.
So Jackson, you mean you
don't like it or you've seen
it or you don't like? I mean
you haven't seen it.
OK, Andrew.
You haven't seen it. I highly
suggest you too. This is a. This
is very old movie. It's it
builds on nine 1068.
So it's very old movie, but it
is a kind of turning point in
the history of cinema and
there's a huge philosophy behind
it. So all the movies of the
Stanley Kubrick is kind of
philosophical, but if you know
this story, the story is about
the human progress in
technology, so it shows the
evolution main evolution, steps
of human beings.
Since we were animals and then
then we figure out how to use
bones as tools and then after
that how can we from the bones
as tools? How we build today's
spacecraft. So in this movie, it
predicts the running time of the
movie is in the 20,000 and one,
so it was a kind of prediction
of the Stanley Kubrick from the
year 20,000 and one we are not
yet there, but we can assume
that I mean in 50 years we're
gonna be there so.
In this is called a match card,
so in this brilliant mascot in
the movie, it shows that how we
progress from Bones. To
building a spacecraft or
space ships and how fast this
technology progress is.
So yes, I am going to borrow
that concept of hell in another
course of mind. In the movie
they built a computer system
called Hal 9000. Actually, the
intelligence behind that
complete machine is.
In the movie it says that it is
foolproof. I mean there is no
error in that machine, etc. By I
highly suggest you to watch this
movie at least this weekend. It
might be boring for you, but.
It is definitely worth it.
OK, so.
Let's continue with our
core. So from now on I'm
going to explain some.
Details about the course. I
mean, what? What is the plot of
our course for this Odyssey? Or
for this journey?
So let's continue.
I just wanted to check the.
OK.
Any questions so far?
Before I start some, I mean
logistics about the course.
I'm not going to teach any new
topic for this course, so from
next week we're gonna start the
first chapter an introduced the
topics. But now I mean I'm going
to explain what are the.
Different aspects of this
course in terms of our
collaborations. For instance,
you as a student and me as the
instructor and TAS and Bgas as
their assistance to the
course.
So no questions.
OK, so this course has these
parts in terms of for a
student who wants to pass the
course. So basically we have
two exams, midterm exam, 30%
of the final final exam.
30% so these are I mean in the
online experience on these exams
are take home exam so basically
I released exams and you go home
and solve the problem. So this
is open book open source I mean
exam but these take home exams
are timed meaning that when you
open the exam and you have a
limited time to finish it. So
usually about two or three hours
limit I put on the exams.
So although the whole day, for
instance, I release the exam on
April, for instance 20 and you
have the whole day to do the
exam. But when you open the exam
you have a limited time to
finish it, so it's called timed
take home exam.
At the time I will explain more
about the hat, so these are two
types of exams are you are
you're going to have?
And based on a weekly.
Lectures and weekly I mean
practices. We have two types of
assignments, lecture assignments
and lab assignments, so we are
going to have 10 of each 10
labs, 10 lectures. Lecture
assignments are those
assignments that is based on the
I mean mathematical proof or I
mean, some exercises that you
can solve by pen and paper. So
for instance, I ask you how we
represent the number 10 in
decimal system. When we wanted
to convert it to binary system
or to hexadecimal system or in
another system. So these are
just a problem that you have
to solve it by pen and paper.
So then you have to take a
snapshot of your paper. I mean
your assignment and then
upload it to the blackboard.
Uh, there would be a manual for
that, so in that manual the
question is gonna be in that
manual. And also usually I put
10 or 12 questions about you are
able to just select two or three
of them based on your
preference. So basically I say
that select two of these
questions and answer them and
upload your answer to the
blackboard. So these are type of
the lecture assignments.
For the lab assignments, the
lab assignments had its own
manual, so in the lab
assignments, these are the
programming assignments, so
you have to write program in C
or C++.
Like as I did today, um,
actually the first lab is
already uploaded in the
blackboard, so you can have a
look. Will look at it. I mean,
right now as an example and we
are going to have 14 weeks.
There is no lab for this week.
The labs they both assignments
so there is no assignments for
the first week. The assignments
lecture and lab assignments
gonna start from next week.
There is no assignment in the
Reading Week. Also there is no
assignments in the last two
weeks of the semester, so in the
Week 13 and 14 there is no
assignments. And also in the
in the week seven, which is
the reading week, there is
no science.
Um so in total we're going to
have 10 labs, 10 lectures, each
one has 2%, so in total 20%
labs, 20% lectures.
So if you sum them, it becomes.
100 in total there's a 5% bonus
point if you participate in the
discussion board. I'll explain
where this discussion board is,
so if you have any questions.
You can send me an email or you
can ask your JS or TS about the
question, but you don't obtain
any bonus points. I highly
suggest you you put your
questions in the discussion
board. There are two benefits
for that. First of all, you
obtain bonus points. Second of
all, maybe there are other
students that have the solution
to your question, so they may
answer your question much more
faster or better. Also, there
might be other students that
have the same question, so
instead of us.
I mean, are applying the same
answer to multiple students, so
there is a single.
Outlet for the questions and the
answers, so that's why I highly
suggest you to put your
questions or any concern in the
discussion boards so you can
obtain bonus points and you can
have the answer for all the
others from the other students
unless you have some privacy
issues. So if you don't want,
you can also post question
anonymously in the discussion
board, so if you don't want to
be, I mean no.
Otherwise, you can send me
any you from email. You can
send me your issues etc. If
you don't like to post your
concern in the discussion.
So any questions so far?
So awesome, Michael.
OK, since there is no
question just to make sure
that everything is clear
again, would you please send
me some feedbacks? You have
70 students, so.
All clear sign thank you.
Awesome Sean.
Oh, and you asked very nice
question. I understand that why
we start the labs from the
number 2. The reason is that we
have a. I synchronize the
numbers at the ID for the lab
and lectures based on the week.
So we are at the lab for the
second week is called Lab 02.
The lecture for the 2nd way is
02, so the number actually shows
the week number. So as a result
there is no lab 7 because Lab 7
is in the reading week. So there
is no assignment.
Or laugh in the reading so
that's why I put the week number
at the end of the lab ID, for
instance, we allowed to laugh
three and attach.
That's that's the reason.
Oh no, no, you have to submit
your answers to the blackboard
so you have to submit your
programming assignments or the
lecture assignment to the
blackboard. So in the manual
I'll show you an example. In
the model you have to follow
the submission.
Procedure I'll explain to you
so you know how to submit
your program or your answers
to the assignments.
Oh, about the I will explain the
due date for the labs and the
lectures for sure. I'll explain,
that's an important thing, yeah?
Ha ha ha. I'm it says that we
need to solve what's going on
USA. Yes, that's that's that's
it. Trending news.
Occupied the Congress. I
did believe.
Their growth is very simple
while true. OK, so let's move on
to the blackboard in the
blackboard. Right now I'm going
to show you some tour on the
blackboard an in the in the
store. I'll explain all other.
Topics about the Simons and
attachment. So let me share my.
Blackboard.
So let's move on to the
Studentvue preview.
So this is our home page. So
basically if you see this banner
means that you are incorrect
home page for this course. So
this is the title of the course.
Computer architecture one visual
design winter 2021.
So the homepage nothing such as
just a banner and etc. I suggest
you to do a Google search on
this. Spinning numbers by
McAllister and also Kendall
Price. These other resources
that talk about the digital
gates and etc.
How we can build from the
simplest units this huge
sophisticated computer systems
in the second link link, there's
a weekly schedule.
At first you see an image, so
the left side is a weekly
schedule and the right side
shows you the 14 weeks. So
this is the I mean, the weeks
that we gonna travel through
in this semester. From the
this week up until the Week
14. But it is an image, so if
you want to zoom inside and
see clearly the content,
there is an Excel file here.
So let's open the Excel file.
Always the. Desktop.
So if you download the
Excel file.
I'm opening that now.
So this is the actual file.
This actually has two sheets.
The first sheet is the weekly,
so every Tuesday and Thursday
we're gonna have the lecture
right after the lecture. There's
an office hour. So right after
this lecture I'm going to be in
the office. I'll show you how
you can attend the office hour
in the blackboard so the officer
is just right after little
lectures on Wednesday you have
the lab sections.
So you can look up, uh, what lab
section you register and you
attend the correct LAB lab room.
The first 2 is a four 1G A
and the 2nd two is for
another GI, the GSR
responsible to instruct the
labs.
Also, I'll explain them the
responsibility of the labs.
Respect to the GS, but The thing
is that every Monday at 7:00 AM.
I release the any mark regarding
the submissions. The marks also
any's new assignments, so next
Monday at the 7:00 AM I released
the Lab 02, an lecture
assignment 02. Actually I
already released the lab 02 now,
but this is the deadline for me
to release the lab assignments
and lecture assignments for you.
Then when you see the
lab and lectures are you
attend the lab sections.
To to get help from the
instructor regarding riding the
programs or solving the
problems. The instructor doesn't
provide you the direct answer,
but they help you how to solve
the program or any other issues.
For instance, if you cannot
install Eclipse, you can attend
the lab section and they the
instructor will help you how to
install the eclipse or if you
have problem solving some
problems you can ask help in
these sections. So from Monday
you see the assignments. On
Wednesday you attend the lab
sections to receive some health.
And then you try to solve
the assignments up until
the next Monday.
Sorry, up until the next
Wednesday until next Wednesday.
There is a due date for your
assignments so. Let me if you go
to the second sheet timeline.
Here's the timeline so.
We are here right now the first
week, so the second week on
Monday you see the lab as the
assignments lab and lectures.
Then on Wednesday you attend the
lab sections to receive help.
Or any I mean, uh, to discuss
any other health problems etc.
On the third week?
The next week, after the second
week on Wednesday, you have to
submit your assignments, lab and
lectures. The deadline is 7:00
AM, but I highly suggest the
official deadline is Tuesday
midnight, but because of the
time zone accommodation, I
assume that the Tuesday meeting
in any place around the world.
So based on that, it becomes
7:00 AM on based on the.
EDT or Eastern Time interval
Time time zone so.
This is the hard deadline. If
you miss this deadline, your
late submission gonna be
unmarked so we don't accept
late submissions unless you
provide a reason. I mean
verifiable reason. For
instance, you don't have any
Internet connection or etc.
Otherwise, we don't accept
late submissions, and the
late submission received 0.
And one thing is that as you can
see here while you submit the
lab for the second week on
Wednesday, you already know the
lab for that week on Monday 3rd
week, you have the Lab 0, three,
and lectures. You're free.
So you attend this section,
receiving help about the new
assignments, and then the next
week you submit.
So. As you can see here the next
week you see the marks, so you
have one week to do the
assignment one week for us to
release the Mark. So as a
sample next week you have
the lab and lecture 02.
The week after that, on
Wednesday you submit it and then
the week after that on Monday
you can see the marks.
So you can add at home. You can
see this timeline to see the.
Other what happens with other
labs? So as you can see here on
the week six as an example, you
receive the multiple previous
labs. Also, you see the labs for
the this week Lab 06.
And then the next week is that
reading Week, so this lab is
gonna be 2 weeks lab, so you
wait up until the Week 8.
At week eight, you submit your
assignments for the lab and
lecture for this week six, and
then the next Monday you will
see the marks for that.
So these are up until the week.
14 as you can see here for
the Week 13 or 14 there is
no class. You just received
the March for previous labs.
So this is an important sheet
for you to just make sure that
you see you. Meet the deadlines.
Oh, I'll explain where you can
find the labs right now. Yeah,
so this is the weekly schedule.
So whenever you become confused
about the deadline set so you
can see this exercise sheet
about that. So the announcement
is those announcement that I
make for all the students. So I
make a weekly's announcement
about what is going to be
available in the blackboard and
etc. Some reminders about the
due dates and etc.
The next link is about learning
outcome. Basically, in this
document are there's a PDF
document you can open it, or you
can see this image. So it shows
that if you pass this course,
what type of knowledge you
obtain. So you can analyze the
design, analyze and design
combinational or sequential
circuits and etc. And finally
you can explain how computer
system works and you can
benefit from this knowledge
for your programming.
The next one is a course
outline.
This is kind of a contract
between me and you, so whatever
happens between us are gonna be
solved by this document.
So there is a PDF file here. You
can download this or you can
read this image so all the
details is explained here.
For instance, what is the where
you can find the learning
outcome where you can find the
lab assignment, lecture
assignment, etc. What is the
prerequisite for this course? As
I said, a 1400 is a prerequisite
for this. This course is
required for these cores, so if
you I mean, unfortunately.
God forbid fail this course. You
cannot take these courses, so
try hard to pass this course.
Because this course is
required for. As you can see,
for five main other courses,
these are the main course for
undergraduate studies.
Uh. Please add more details.
The office if you click this
link you can redirect to the
office to attend the office
and classroom.
This is the home page. This is
my contact so if you want to
send an email use this email.
You have to use your you mean ID
email to send an email to me and
if you find if you want to know
more about you can go to this
link. This is the official book.
This is all design, uh, we don't
cover HDL or VHDL, but we just
covered the first 5 chapters of
the book. Uh.
This is the marking scheme that
I already explained. And whoever
passes the 50% collect 50% in
total gonna be gonna pass the
course. So at the end of the
term I sum all these Marks and
if you are more than 50 it means
that you pass the course.
Um?
The book is necessary. No, you
have one thing is that as long
as you follow the lecture slides
and lecture recordings and you
follow the assignments, there's
no need for the book. But also
there are a lot of resources
available online other than this
book that helps you a lot with
the topics, so this is not a
necessary resource, but it's if
I mean it's a reference.
I followed the chapters from
this book, but it's not a
necessary resource for you, and
these are the weekly schedule
for me and you. I mean, next
week I'm going to start the
numbering system topic.
Then the third week. This is the
plan, etc. So I put some
reminders for you. So these are
the dates and the just a
reminder for you that when is
the last. I then drop or
when is the financial
drop date an attachment?
So our meet, I'm gonna be
just the week after the the
week after the reading. So
right after the reading week
at the first Tuesday, we
cannot have the midterms.
And up until the others up
until the Week 15, which is
gonna be the final exam
within these times.
We have four sections of lab are
there's another document which
explains the labs. I'll open it
right after this to explain it
more about the lab structure and
etc and the attendance is not
mandatory. So because of the
time zone accommodation, you can
watch the recordings and etc.
And are different. I mean, uh,
notes very important notes to
you. One thing is that you have
to comply with the EDI. Read
about this if any problem
regarding the EDI happens, you
can contact the sexual
misconduct, response etc and
report that to me or to them.
You have to report me as soon as
possible about SAS services so I
can provide some accommodation
for you, such as an extension to
the deadlines and to the mid
term exam or final exam.
These are more, uh, important
notes about the assignments.
One thing is that I don't cover
all the topics in my lectures.
There are some topics that are
explained in the inside the
assignments. For instance in
Electro Simon I explained a
new topic which is not covered
in the lecture slides. So you
have to read the assignments
because there are some topics
that are covered in the
assignments. Remember that not
two type of assignment said
lectures and labs and these
are the explination that I
already explained.
In the labs, you can ask the
instructor about both type of
quiz. I mean assignments, either
the practical questions or the
programming questions.
Late submission 0.
An other thing, oh, one thing is
that you might have some problem
with the submission to the
blackboard. Sometimes you mean
incorrectly submit to another.
I mean area etc. So whatever
problem you have with your
assignments, you have to
communicate with your lab
instructor. So again, this is
very important. Do not
communicate with me first about
any issue regarding the
assignments. Either. It is about
the marking or about the latest
submission, etc. You have to
communicate with the lab
instructor so where you can find
your lab instruction I I will
explain that but.
First, communicate with him and
then if it is not resolved then
reach out to me.
So this is important, please do
this first, because if you send
me the email I will redirect you
to the lab instructor.
And more notes you can. I highly
suggest you. There's no makeup
for final exam, so sorry there's
no makeup for the makeup exam.
There is no makeup for the mid
term exam. There is a meet make
up exam for final exam but you
have to provide some really. I
mean documentation. The reason
for that. An etc. So as I
said, there's a bonus point
you can. You can ask to
review your exams or your
marks for the assignments
and.
Oh, one thing plagiarism.
You know we are in the.
OK, we are in the online
experience area so everything is
available online so you can
search online about the I mean
the answer of the assignments.
That's fine with me no problem,
But The thing is you have to
properly cite that resource.
So one thing is that if you just
copy and paste the solution you
want to learn the concept.
So the online, the online
resources for you to understand
better the solutions, not just
to copy paste the solution so.
If you do not properly cite the
resource or in the exams if you
just simply copy paste or any
type of pleiger ISM, this is a
huge I mean insult to the course
and there's a formal process for
that, and etc.
Please be mindful about that. Do
not do that, although it is open
for you to search online, but do
not just simply copy paste. Try
to understand the solution and
rather paraphrase the solution
or come up with your own
solution. Sometimes in the exams
or in the assignments. This
student says that this is the
correct solution, but my idea of
solution is this an sometimes I
give some bonus points because
of the innovative solution to
the problem. So that's a better
way to. I mean search online.
And etc. So this is a very
important document. Read it
carefully and if you are in
question, I'm ready to
answer right now.
So.
OK, Adam asked that all day
assignment based off the correct
week of information and.
Speaking for myself, yes, based
on the current week. So each
assignments are based on the
current knowledge or current
week slides and lectures. So for
instance, next week we start.
Talking about the numbering
system at the first day of the
week, we release the
assignments, but within the
lectures we explain what is
dinamic system and then the next
week when you submit your
assignments, you already know
the topics and you are able to
solve the assignments.
Yes, just the each week
assignments has the
knowledge of that week.
All, not really, because
sometimes for instance.
On Tuesday, for instance, on
Monday you have the assignments.
On Tuesday we cover some part of
the topics so you can
incrementally answer the
questions so you can look up to
the answer answer sheet and see
what topics are covered by
Tuesday and then try to solve
that by Tuesday and then up on
the Thursday. You see, the new
topics covered and then try to
answer the solutions for that
topic. So this is a kind of
incremental answer into the
questions. And one thing is that
usually for the lecture
assignments I say that based on
your preference, just select two
of them. So this way I you have
the ability to just select
whatever question you like this
on the lectures that are covered
up until then.
Yeah.
Uh. Did you ask that the
attendance to the labs or
mandatory? No no, not. I mean
even the lectures and labs are
not mandatory, but we released
the recording for the labs as
well. So we record the labs too.
And then we release it. If at
least one student at I mean
attending labs. So if you have
at least one student, we record
the labs and we post the
recording for the labs too as
well as the lecture recordings.
So black with glitches and
doesn't let you submit labs or
assignment this any longer.
Um? One thing is that if you are
not able to submit the black so
you assignment to the
blackboard, you can send an
email to your lab instructor
with your submission so you can
submit your assignment to the
lab instructor by email.
And then you explain you take a
snapshot of the problem from the
blackboard and then you explain
that this is the reason that I
didn't submit to the blackboard
and but The thing is that
finally they gonna ask you to
submit it to the blackboard. So
sending email it just for you
just to bypass the deadline. So
after after the blackboard
becomes OK. So you have to again
submit to the blackboard because
we need the assignments to be in
the blackboard. So that way you
can provide some justification
to the lab instructor to accept
your late submissions.
So let's continue with the other
part of the home page. So in the
as you can see, there's a
lecture link. In this area I put
any resource about the lectures,
for instance for this week.
I put the slides. I mean after
the lecture and also I put the
link to the recordings here.
The same is for the other weeks,
so in this area you can find all
the lecture slides and
recordings for the lectures.
In order to attend the
classroom, you just simply click
the classroom and then goes to
the Blackboard Ultra on you.
This is the classroom.
For the labs, you can click
the labs an as you can see
here there is a laboratory
guide here. Also, there's a
video help how to attend the
labs an all the assignments
for the lab's gonna be here.
So this is the lab at 02 for
next week. This is the manual
for that and this is a sample
solution so you can read the
sample solution and know what is
the problem etc. And this is the
manner for that. The video
recording of the lab is going to
be here. These links are not
able or not enabled yet, but
they're gonna be next week or
for the lecture assignment. The
lecture assignments going to be
in the lectures, so for
instance in the in this area
I'm going to post the
assignment for the lectures, so
the assignments for the lecture
is going to be in the lectures.
The summers for the lab is
going to be here for here lots.
In this area you can see who
is the lab instructor for
each section. For the last
section 53 and 52 more. It is
the lab instructor and this
is the email.
For the 51 or 54 manil is the
instructor and this is the
email. As I said, any problem
with the assignments. You have
to figure out in what section
you registered an you
communicate with the lab
instructor for that lab section.
At the lab room, you can simply
simply click the lab room.
It goes to the same area as the
class, but inside here you can
see that there are different
sections for each lab.
So you can figure out, for
instance, for the next week lab.
This is the election, Section
53, four to 5520.
You can click it and then
you attend the lab. So these
are the weekly lab sections
on Wednesdays.
And this is the discussion
board up in the discussion
board or you already have
some new thread here. For
each area of differences.
Some exam, laboratory, lectures,
etc. We have a forum so if you
have any question or any problem
you can go to the about their
lectures. You can simply go to
the lectures. And as you can see
here, I put some up.
Thinking I mean thought for you,
you can try to investigate an
answer to these problems and
obtain bonus points.
Also, there are others. For
instance, if you have any
problem with the labs, you
can post your problems here
and the lab instructors gonna
monitor this area and the
answer it here.
This is a very good area for
you. I mean based on my
experience, most of these
students actually enjoyed this
area because they gonna have
the answers to the problems
and also collect bonus points.
Correct, yes, yes Adam if you
answer other students questions
you can. Whatever participation
in the discussion but you are
going to collect bonus points.
But The thing is that sometimes
students post do not post
answers to the assignments. This
is a kind of plagiarism. Do not
put some. I mean trivial
questions just to collect bonus
points. This is not.
Account so put a real
questions or real problems
and then we'll answer them
in the discussion board.
We can see the grades are
here, uh, so.
Uh, we released the grades
on Monday every week, 7:00
AM. Up until then you cannot
see the color.
And then after that you can
check your marks an if you have
problems you can communicate
with the lab instructor. Do not
communicate with the markers.
Markers are not responsible too.
I replied to you, the lab
instructors are responsible
to communicate with you.
So let's go to the lab man Hall.
This is the man of the labs. So
in the in this document I
explained what's the purpose of
labs? The lab sections, etc. The
instructors. These are the
markers for your lab and lecture
assignments. But again, although
you have the emails, do not
communicate with them.
These guys are kind of
anonymously marks your
assignments so you have to
communicate with these
structures about any issue.
Marking scheme and the weekly
assignments up until the lab 12.
Lab 2 three up until Lab 12 and
these are the topics of the
programming for the labs.
And. That's pretty much it.
And yes.
So.
I'm ready for your
questions and, uh.
So there is a deal get on.
As I said, asking and answering
any question, the discussion
board counts for the bonus
points. What is the meaning of
the picture on the course home
page? Oh, the meaning of you
mean the banner? Here.
Are you find this? You'll find
this. What's the relationship of
this banner and the.
Logic circuits you'll see that
actually this is an or gate.
This is an and gate and this is
a NOT gate. These are the
fundamental gates for the
computer systems and all the
computer systems are built based
on these gates.
Oh, this sunflower actually just
wanted to show you that this is
a processor. This is a
processor. Assume inside the
process. This is a CPU inside
the computer system which is
built by these gates.
I just wanted to show you
that a computer system.
Is built by these elements.
These simple elements.
Any other questions?
And I designed it myself. I
borrowed the idea from the Mac
Alister. So if you want to
read more about this panel,
you can go through. You can
search the Mac. Alister is
spinning numbers in this link.
You can read more about why I
come up with this design.
So any other questions? By
the way, I'm going to be in
the office hour right after
here, so you can simply just
click the office.
Go to the same area and then
here is my office. So now the
office hour 11:30 up until 12:30
is enabled, so you can simply
click on that and then join the
session. So I'm going to be in
the office hour, right? I mean
at in 5 minutes.
So. Any other questions?
No questions.
So if there is no questions, uh?
Thank you so much and thank you
actually, thank you that attend
the lecture and.
Yes, I'll, I'll wait for you to
real. Leave this session and
then I'll stop the recording and
go to the office hours
Thank you Tatiana. Thank you Ryohei Sam.
Jaxon Jaydip thank you so much. Thank you.
Xiaoqing. Zachary Issac. Sorry if I do not pronounce your name
correctly, but I try my best.
You can, you can let me know how
I can pronounce your name
correctly. Thank you Justin. You
too have a great day.